This course introduces methods and concepts used to infer causal effects
from comparisons of intervention and control groups. We'll use the
potential outcomes framework of causality to show how a study's research
design provides a foundation for estimation and testing. We focus,
first, on properties of estimators and tests in randomized experiments,
e.g., unbiasedness, consistency, controlled error rates. We then turn to
research designs that are either partially controlled (e.g., experiments
with noncompliance and/or attrition) or uncontrolled (e.g.,
observational studies). For observational studies, we focus primarily on
matching methods implemented via `optmatch` and related packages in `R`.
Finally, we turn to sensitivity analysis --- namely, how to assess how
inferences would change should certain assumptions about the research
design be false. Examples throughout the course are drawn from
economics, political science, public health, and sociology.

We assume familiarity with linear algebra and strong knowledge of
statistical concepts, such as sampling distributions, statistical
inference, and hypothesis testing. Demonstrations, examples and
assignments make extensive use of `R`.

The course meets from 9:30 AM to 12:45 PM US Eastern Time, Monday
through Friday, from June 16 through July 3, in room 1437 Mason Hall.
Ben will be the primary instructor for the half of the course. Jake will
be the primary instructor for the second half. The teaching assistants
are Tyler Chen (`tylercr@umich.edu`) and Alice Malmberg
(`ammalmberg@ucdavis.edu`).

For more about course plans, see [detailed syllabus (as PDF)
](/courses/764316/files/41190005?wrap=1 "syllabus2025icpsr.pdf"){.instructure_file_link
.instructure_scribd_file .inline_disabled target="_blank"
rel="noopener"}; for the course\'s schedule, see \"Course Summary\"
below. Other course essentials can be found here or in the Course
Navigation menu (typically found in the left panel of this page; starts
with \"Home\"); Readings are distributed in the Files section, in
subfolders of 1_Readings/; Lecture-specific materials are in
Files/2_Lecture_Notes/; Zoom links (with password) are given under
Zoom.
